(Steve Kroschel) Lightning,
the Northern Lights,
the Moon and every force of
nature gifts the surface of
the Earth with energy.
Mankind has had a sense of
this all the way back
to the Stone Age.
I live in the Alaskan
wilderness and
recently learned of this
powerful energy myself.
(Howard Straus) He has made
one of the most significant
health discoveries
of all time.
One man re-discovered
this secret that
was to change my
hometown forever.
A grounding rod
and a wire is all it took,
to personally test whether
this was too good to be true.
And if anyone takes off
their shoes and connects to
the Earth, a profound change
takes place, immediately.
Everything's
all interconnected.
Anecdotal evidence
doesn't prove anything.
They call it
'Earthing' or 'Grounding.'
Scientific testing occurs
all over the world.
And what happens to our blood
cells is just the beginning.
Earthing has the
profound power to enable our
bodies to become resilient
to toxic food we eat,
air we breathe and
water we drink.
Even electrical pollution
can lose its damaging sting,
if we are grounded.
Physicists and
medical doctors studied the
stream of data and scratched
their heads in amazement.
(Rocky) I can say it's the
everyday Joe that's gonna need
this more than the guy that's
got millions of dollars.
(Steve) How much
money do you have?
Zilch.
(Steve) Has your
back gotten better?
I have absolutely
no pain in my back, whatsoever.
...and now long term, I don't
have pain, at all, anymore.
...and I noticed that I
was sleeping
better, I had a
deeper sleep...
...I used to not be
able to just reach up.
It transformed how
local hotel operators did
business - but then
came the skeptics.
(Young Woman) We understand
you have created a website
called Skeptoid.com?
I can't say I've heard anyone
say they had a health benefit.
(Dave Olerud)
I walked 30 feet today!
(Dr. James Ochsman) Penicillin
was a revolution in medicine.
This is a revolution
in healthcare that
transcends penicillin.
The Earth knew what
the patients needed!
(Taxi Driver) What are you here
for? Business? Or Pleasure?
Oh, a little bit of both. I'm
here to get together with some
fellow colleagues of mine who
are passionate about Earthing.
It's hard to believe, isn't it?
...to help them
be heart-healthy...
...it's just uncanny how
fast people heal.
One of the most sensitive
indicators of changes in
the Earth's field environment
is the human heart.
Top medical experts
from around the world banded
together to further the
scientific research,
in an effort to
revolutionize healthcare
and save the environment
in the process.
(Man) Why's everybody barefeet?
(Steve) Why
is everybody barefoot?
Yes.
(Dr. Stephen Sinatra) Well, do
you want to answer that one?
(David Suzuki) We need to be
connected with the Earth,
which gave us birth!
(Martin Zucker) It's such a
simple and so profound and
powerful concept - and it's
right there, beneath our feet.
(Clint Ober) If
there is a message,
at all about Earthing, it
really is about our connection
with nature, with the
planet, with the universe.
Scientists can now
see forms of this energy
in the laboratory.
Earth's vibrational power can
re-arrange grains of sand,
which suggests nothing
in nature is random.
The world's greatest
heroes are oftentimes
visionaries - and for
one Apollo Astronaut,
he was determined
to learn more,
when he showed up
at my doorstep.
(Edgar Mitchell) Is this a
wire that's connecting it?
(Dr. Christy Garner) Yeah. it's
a wire,and there's a mesh.
And it becomes really
distinct over time.
This poor little sunflower
that's not connected
starts to wither and wilt.
And the one that's connected
to the Earth is still
vibrant and strong.
It seems to me, when I look
at this, that the Earth,
itself has this energy to
give every living creature.
(Edgar Mitchell) Well, it
certainly would suggest that -
certainly would suggest that.
(TV Newscaster) An Alaskan
filmmaker is shooting a
documentary, right
here, in Upstate.
It's about a concept
even the filmmaker says is
too good to be true.
Have you ever
heard of grounding?
It's a healing
concept, filmmaker
Steve Kroschel believes
can change the world.
This will be part of the
sequel to Steve's documentary,
'Grounded,' the
documentary that was panned by
critics who were skeptical.
Steve says he's out to
prove these critics wrong.
(Taxi Driver) So, y'all are
you in town, visiting?
(Dr. Stephen Sinatra)
We're here to shoot this movie
and basically to tell
the world about the
medicinal benefits,
which are absolutely huge.
All of my life,
I've worked with wild animals,
many of them orphaned and in
the course of this activity,
I became a documentary
filmmaker,
that tried to reveal
truths about many animals
that were long misunderstood.
One of them was the wolverine.
What scientists
once thought about this
animal's physical
characteristics and
personality has
changed profoundly over time
and on this given day,
a BBC film crew was
shooting a segment with me,
furthering that enlightenment.
They are not vicious,
cold-blooded killers.
They are, instead, highly
intelligent and playful
creatures that prefer to
live as far away from modern
civilization's
mess, as possible.
The film crew was
shooting a cutting-edge
documentary, called
'Beyond Human'
and utilized my
cabin as a home base.
The wolverine's
extremely refined sense of
smell is what they
wanted to highlight.
Their olfactory ability is
exceedingly beyond human.
And we've barely
scratched the surface,
with understanding
what animals detect,
in their shrinking world.
As humans, most
of us have now lost our
connection to nature and
now there is a word for it,
NDD - Nature Deficit Disorder -
and this incompleteness has
taken a severe toll on our
mental and physical wellbeing.
And this is where
the story turns a page.
I had a visitor, who was
from a different world.
Yet, he was lucky.
He was lucky, because his
father is a medical doctor,
a heart specialist,
who could see something
most of us could not.
And because I had this visitor,
another guest arrived,
straight from California,
who is the host of a radio
show about human health.
His name is Howard Straus.
This is the guy
who had Clint Ober,
the re-discoverer of
Earthing or Grounding,
on his health broadcast,
a couple of years ago,
that I had listened to.
And because of that radio
show, it changed my life -
and my hometown of
Haines, Alaska, for good.
He was here to do
an on-location interview with
my visitor, Step Sinatra,
the son of cardiologist
Dr. Stephen Sinatra.
I knew the interview would be
challenging from the start,
because Step was starved for
nature - and didn't want to be
in any one spot very long.
I admit it was nice to have
some help with the firewood.
Both of them were
eager to have contact with the
orphaned animals, including
Angelika, the moose,
who wasn't feeling very
good the past few days.
They brought over
some organic carrots,
to make friends with her.
It was time for breakfast
- and what was on the menu
was a prescription.
A prescription straight
from the pages of a book,
written by Dr. Max Gerson;
an MD that succeeded in curing
cancer, almost a
hundred years ago,
with a famous cancer
therapy or, rather,
infamous cancer therapy
depending on one's point of
view since the trick to
it's success is not drugs but
basically diet, which
emphasizes juicing organic
vegetables in a special way.
Howard Straus is
Gerson's grandson.
I knew that Step
Sinatra liked to connect to
the Earth, with his bare feet,
as much as possible
and so do I, for that matter.
Years ago, I realized
that by this time,
no sane grizzly wanted
to be, dare I say,
barefoot in November.
And the only option was
to go into the Earth,
where it was warm
and comfortable.
I fashioned an open ended
culvert into a den
as well for humans, that is.
It is here, that Howard
was able to continue his
on location interview,
for his radio show,
'The Power of
Natural Healing.'
(Howard Straus) You have
attributed Earthing
to saving your life.
(Step Sinatra) It kind of goes
along with my new philosophy,
now, after everything
that I've been through,
that nature has a
cure for everything.
God talked to me.
It was incredible.
And God said something so
simple, yet it was profound,
and He said,
'Do you want to be here?'
By be here, you mean,
On Earth and alive.
Yes. Exactly.
I lived such a complex life,
I chased after a lot of
material type things
and like I said before,
that was not the answer.
It got me to the wrong place.
So now, I'm gravitating
back towards nature;
towards the laws of nature,
towards the principles of
Ayurvedic medicine,
where nature is your healer
and your teacher.
Like I said before,
nature has a cure for
everything and that's what
I learned, going through
my entire healing journey.
And I had spent hundreds
of thousands of dollars,
trying to see every specialist
that was out there, clinic or
therapy, or whatever it was
because I had the resources.
And all those led
me to nothing.
Still ill health.
And really, the journey is
that I had to go deep.
I had to go within myself and
realize that the healing
is from above.
As above, so below is
from the spiritual aspect
and I'm going to
say God, and that's it.
Whatever everybody else
may think that may be,
it's all personal but
there's an intelligence that
is beyond us and connecting
with that; feeling that love,
that's healing and
that is nature.
Step Sinatra defines
his previous life as
one where the bottom line
was all that mattered.
He worked as a
Wall Street trader,
but eventually also traded in
his health, inadvertently.
But perhaps his illness
ultimately became
his greatest gift.
When his father, Cardiologist
Stephen Sinatra started
a desperate search
with Step for the cause
of his lost health;
he discovered a
few key factors.
The two main ones were
that his diet lacked proper
nutrition and he walked
around with cellphones;
sometimes one on each
ear, day in and day out.
Many people are sensitive to
electromagnetic frequencies.
For these people, devices that
label the word Smart as part
of the product ID are
anything but that.
But Step's recovery did more
than give him back his life.
He had an epiphany and it
opened his heart and his mind.
(Step) OK, so I'm in
the hospital and the main
doctor walks in and
eight other doctors,
in white coats
surround my hospital bed.
Ten minutes before that, I'd
almost choked to death because
I was so weak, I was 83 pounds,
I could hardly breathe.
The doctor says, telling all
the other doctors, he goes,
'This young man has a 1% chance
of living through the night.'
- One percent chance?
- Yes.
And my family's in the room,
they're crying and I said to
myself, at that moment,
I go, Oh, my gosh!
This was my worst fear.
I can't believe I created this!
Because it was like I was in
a movie and I realized that I
had created my worst fear.
So, the epiphany was this,
a split second after
that, I said, Wow, well,
if I created that, then I can
create my wildest dreams.
There was a time, not
too long ago that I wanted
to see, with my own eyes, the
documented proof of his past
and it took me right to the
doorstep of his mother, Susie.
I was then led to reunite
with Dr. Laura Koniver,
to independently
evaluate his health profile.
Step's health deterioration,
at society's current disregard
for basic biological
laws is not unique.
In fact some experts say that
the majority of us are now
caught up in some
kind of health crisis,
that is linked to
environmental factors,
whether we realize it, or not.
To live a healthy life,
does not mean one has
to deprive themselves
of tasty food and drink.
And before Step and
Howard left my cabin,
we all experienced that fact.
It's just that the wine should
be made from grapes that
aren't heavy laden with
pesticides and chemicals and
the same goes, all
the way down the line,
from the turkey
to the potatoes.
But if our diet is
less than optimal,
inflammation of the body
can be a consequence. And yet,
Earthing or Grounding can
still help put out the fire.
Surely, there must be
a lot of people who stay at
the Eagle's Nest Motel
that don't eat right,
yet something is going on
with them; because now,
ALL the rooms at the Eagle's
Nest Motel are grounded
because the
public demanded it.
Splitting firewood in the
dark is asking for trouble
but from personal
experience,
the difference of having a
broken body for a day
as opposed to a week rests in
connecting to the Earth by way
of a single wire, connected to
a grounding rod in the Earth,
under a pile of snow.
I can only imagine
what the implications are,
if this if this ever catches
on to what's possible.
I recovered fast enough to
follow Step Sinatra to
Vancouver, where he was
visiting his brother, Drew and
his family. This was a place
to gain a broader perspective.
(Steve) So,
what's he doing?
Step's routine in the morning;
it's his way of grounding;
it's his way of centering.
He does a load of the Chi Gong
exercises, with his arms,
you'll notice him doing that
and it's his way of really
building energy. It's building
Chi, it's building sustenance.
(Steve) And he's
barefoot and he's grounded.
He's barefoot and
he's grounded.
He loves it when he does it.
If you ever try these particular
exercises, you'll feel sort
of vibrant; you'll almost
feel this energy in your hands.
Step and Drew
Sinatra know where to go
barefoot in the city.
Sidewalks made of cement
are conductive and are
like walking on the Earth.
Whereas asphalt, which is
what city streets and
most highways are made out
of, has a chemical makeup
which is nonconductive.
Step was holding onto the
water faucet while shaving,
for a reason because the pipes
and water line are grounded.
Even taking a bath takes
on a whole new perspective.
When Step and Drew took me
along to meet a patient
at Drew's clinic,
they introduced
me to a meter they
use, which,
to my amazement, was able
to read electromagnetic
pollution emanating from power
lines and cell phone towers,
which clearly proved
that it existed.
(Drew's Patient) It
was over a year ago,
and I'd gone to see a
girlfriend who was extremely
sick and all those doctors
couldn't diagnose her,
so we took her for a walk in
her wheelchair and we went
over the overpass, into the
park area and all of a sudden,
I was like, Oh my God!
You guys? Is it raining?
Is it raining...knives?
The noise..
(Drew) You were beneath
the power lines.
For me. Not everyone else felt
that but for me, it was like,
I've got to get out of
here, because it hurt.
It physically was
hurting my skin.
Because most of
current society is bathed
24/7 in this electro smog, the
best way to deal with this
fact is through
grounding and nutrition.
In the case of this patient,
she was receiving a vitamin
cocktail, intravenously.
Just outside Vancouver in
Victoria, British Columbia,
I met up with Step and Drew's
father, Dr. Stephen Sinatra.
Although he was
using a cellphone,
he was also barefoot
at the same time,
to counteract the effects.
Dr. Sinatra was in Victoria
to address the issues
surrounding this subject.
(Steve) Nice to
meet you, Dr. Black!
(Martin Black) Oh,
good afternoon.
And what are you going
to be doing, today here?
There will be a meeting,
and a number of us will
be discussing various aspects
of the electromagnetic field
pollution that's been pervading
this country, and then,
the world, the last few years.
Well, most people don't
believe that there's any danger.
What do you say to that?
Well, they don't
believe that because
they don't feel it but there
are meters around that feel it,
there are small animals
around that feel it and they
let you know by not surviving.
Small animals?
Even insects?
Even insects.
Can you give an example?
There was a study I read,
actually a few days ago and
it was published in July in
Greece, where somebody had the
students raise fruit flies.
Remember, fruit flies
were the experimental animal,
from whom we started to learn
about chromosomes and genes;
the very famous experiments,
done in the Fly Room at
Columbia University.
Anyway, he did this,
having the flies exposed
to different kinds of gadgets,
all the different
gadgets that we have,
maybe a dozen of them.
And the fact of the matter is
that it interfered with them
and the eggs many of
the eggs didn't survive.
In fact, all of the
exposed insect eggs were
damaged, compared
to the controls.
So, you know, you don't
have to ask the insects,
they tell you by
just not surviving.
There are literally
thousands of published
independent studies,
worldwide that warn of
reproductive abnormalities
and DNA damage.
Even cell phone manufacturers
have warnings but most
people don't read the fine
print that that comes with
these personal gadgets.
I do not own a
phone for several reasons.
One of which is that there is
no reception where I live.
And in making
this documentary,
it was becoming
increasingly difficult to
actually find a pay phone.
They are disappearing fast.
And so, society changes
according to an economic plan,
for better or for worse and
history has shown us that
hindsight is 20/20.
Personally, I look at EMFs as
a kind of soft kill.
But necessary, I guess.
No one is going to throw out
these electronic gadgets,
anymore than we're going
to stop driving cars,
because they burn poisons that
obviously aren't healthy.
Dr. David Suzuki gave
me a better perspective.
(Dr. David Suzuki) We have come
to think that our bottom line,
is determined by economics.
Economics is a
human created entity.
It's not some magic
force of nature,
that suddenly
comes upon us and
we've got to bow down before
it but we've created the
economy as if it's
some kind of thing,
here that we're all here
to service. The reality is,
we have forgotten that
we are biological creatures.
(Steve) And you are an
Electronics Engineer,
is that right?
- Yes.
And you work in
Silicon Valley?
Yes.
And I described to
you what grounding is about
and what did you
think of that?
I believe that we
need to see data
and if it is reproducible
and if there is data
to back it up...
The only way that
I'm able to leave Alaska for
brief periods of time is
because I can rely on one man,
Rocky Seward.
Rocky is another example of
someone who's suffered from
health issues that melted
away because of Earthing.
Now, I tested one
of those meters
in my cabin and was relieved to
see that it read minus 65,
which is the best
reading one can have.
The first documentary
about Grounding,
and how it helped the
residents of my hometown,
was having its first premiere.
The only problem was,
there was a snowstorm brewing.
(Steve Kroschel)
This town is unique.
People in this place are
interested in doing
something adventurous.
(Steve) Now, you're an
electrician and some people
say that Earthing makes you
sick that if you go barefoot
on the earth, that there
could be stray voltage.
And that it could
make you sick.
What do you say to that?
No, the Earth is grounded,
you're not grounded.
You can't get sick from that.
(Steve) All right, how long
have you been an electrician?
Fifty years.
My company is Hertz Electric.
And then
there was Dave Olerud,
who not only recovered the
ability to walk again but
recently had open
heart surgery
to repair a congenital
heart defect.
Two years ago, the
doctors and his family
feared that it would
have killed him,
right on the
operating table.
(Dave Olerud) Once you
look at the evidence,
there you see it?
And this, if you notice,
is where I plug myself in,
every time I lay down.
(Steve) What do the
doctors say about this belt
that you wear?
(Dave Olerud)
They were doctors.
They didn't say anything
positive or negative.
Of course, I didn't
plug myself in,
when I was in the hospital.
But, you know, I think they
hear all kinds of stories.
He said, if you conquered what
you did, as a paraplegic,
he said, you can
conquer this, too.
And I had a beautiful wife
and family to help me...
(Steve) The doctors
were they surprised?
The last time I
went up there,
we had a checkup and
we went up last Fall,
and the doctor evaluated me
and he had nothing but a smile
on his face.
He said, That's a miracle.
No matter where I looked,
people were transformed.
Take my associate,
Mario Bonassi,
who works with birds of prey.
His life dramatically
changed, which of course,
also helped the snowy
owl, indirectly.
And what better
way to celebrate,
than to play Santa Claus, and
deliver grounding resources to
those that slipped on the ice
or couldn't sleep or had a
spouse that was
desperate...
the list of people
runs off the page.
When I stop and think
about it, Mother Nature,
in her vast silence, speaks
volumes to me, sometimes.
I see a beautiful energy, when
one directly connects to her
that makes a human being's
spirit soar. And this soul
shine seems to manifest itself
in all life, everywhere.
Children from all
over the country began to
write me, after hearing
about how I would do tests,
with cut sunflowers in vases
and ground one
and not the other.
For this young girl, the
results were worth a ribbon.
And it wasn't long
before this idea of grounding
plants branched out in our
community with an herb that
fuels scorn, hatred, confusion
but yet, hope for many.
For one resident of Haines,
Alaska, he wouldn't let frozen
ground deter him from a test
that he wanted to do with me.
So, he stuck a grounding rod
in a tree and then ran a wire
into his little
garden in the house.
We wanted to verify the potted
plants he selected for this
trial were indeed grounded.
And so, we tested the
connection from the tree with
a separate Ground
from his water faucet.
I stuck two flags in
the potted plants that were
grounded to see
what would happen,
over two weeks and three days.
One of the plants, that was
ungrounded, in the back,
had a seven day head start.
Surely, as they all
grew together,
their leaves
started to touch each other,
giving the entire
garden a boost of power.
Even so, running a ruler
across the tops of the whole
garden, verified the
two grounded plants.
Growing cannabis
is legal in Alaska and I've
personally seen its astounding
medicinal effects on those
sent home to die by
allopathic medicine.
It's the resin that
does the trick,
when ingested by the walking
dead that gives them
their life back.
I've personally
followed these miracles,
through the work of Dr.
Jeffrey Hergenrather,
who demonstrates hope,
health and life, everyday.
Grounding is part of nature's
recipe for keeping us truly
alive. We need to be
grounded now more than ever,
because our present
culture seems oblivious
to basic biology.
In favor of shortsighted,
unsustainable economic gain.
I find it
absolutely amazing that
virtually all indigenous
people clearly understood
how connecting to the Earth
meant being truly alive.
But presently, being grounded
takes on a deeper significance.
Countless studies have proven
that a diet filled with
genetically modified food
is not good for humans and
creates inflammation.
Grounding can help
significantly but if
consumed in large amounts
by a sensitive wild animal,
a tipping point
can be reached,
for which nothing can be done.
After Marge the
moose died in late Fall,
I discovered in research,
that a pellet that I was
feeding Angelika and Karen,
as a supplement to wild
browse contained
genetically modified Corn.
I was tempted to
continue feeding it,
till I looked
into Karen's eyes.
But it was already
too late for Angelika.
How could I have done this?
Was it really the Genetically
Modified food, called GMOs,
or something else?
I needed to be sure.
It would take me all the
way to New York City
to listen to one of the
world's foremost authorities
and researchers on the
subject, Jeffrey Smith.
I entered a lecture he
was giving on this
agricultural nightmare.
(Jeffrey Smith) RoundUp is
now being sprayed on wheat,
on barley, on rye, on
potatoes, on citrus,
on berries, as a
ripening agent.
So, if you're going to avoid
GMOs, also switch to Organic,
because Organic does
not allow RoundUp.
These are testicles
that changed from
pink to blue, in rats
that were fed GM soy.
If GMOs were causing
these problems,
why would we not see them?
No one is looking.
There's no postmarketing
surveillance.
I related the moose tragedy
to Jeffrey for his insight.
(Jeffrey Smith) We've seen a
lot of evidence of livestock
and wild animals, certainly
avoiding GMOs when given a
choice so, it would be
interesting to
try that experiment.
But also, of getting better
when taken off of GMOs.
We've heard a cattle feed
operation showed a lower death
rate, when the GMO
corn was removed.
We've talked about, we've
seen certain organ lesions in
animals fed GMOs, whether in
the farm or in the laboratory.
It was at this point, that
I started to introduce some
good news, in the middle
of all this bad news.
This wasn't Haines, Alaska,
anymore but I discovered
quickly, that the people
were no different.
As fate would have it, the
'Grounded' movie that premiered
in Haines was suddenly
in the national spotlight,
about to premiere
in New York City.
And Howard Straus was set to
record another on-location
radio segment for
his health program.
This time, he met with
earthing advocate, Dr. Laura
Koniver and her two children
for a segment in Central Park.
Dr. Koniver homeschools her
two children and utilizes
these types of travels
for homeschool lessons.
(Dr. Laura Koniver) earthing's
one of the most ancient healing
modalities of all time, so
it's the easiest for more
patients to align with.
I've seen everything from
weight loss, to pain
reduction, to sleeping better.
I've had patients, literally
say that they have a tree
that's on their balcony that
they can touch the branch of
but it's rooted in the
ground below. They sit there
on the balcony reading while
touching that for ten minutes
and it makes a difference
in their life, so yeah.
Dr. Koniver went from
one radio program to
another, with her
message of healing.
(Dr. Laura Koniver)
All of your free radicals,
any kind of inflammatory
things that you've got,
starting to built up, it's
starting to wash it away, now.
Before long, I had Howard
helping me hand out crumpled
paper bags of Earthing
resources to these city folk.
It was Dj vu.
While staying in the big city,
I switched to a more civilized
way to ground,
even myself at night.
But first, I needed to check
the grounding port in a wall
socket, to ensure the
building was properly wired.
Older buildings,
before the 1970s,
did not always have a good
ground. For this reason,
a grounding rod is often
necessary. I was in luck.
The wiring was updated
in this old hotel.
Now, the Earth's energy
could flow into the
conductive fibers of the pad,
if my skin made contact.
(Howard Straus) So, I had
a conversation with Laura
Koniver and she said that she
did a little mini study with
her obesity patients;
that they were all women.
60% of them lost
weight, as she expected.
40% of them did not.
But those 40%, when she
looked into it more deeply,
had more serious ailments.
And the more serious
ailments DID clear so,
in other words, the body took
care of the most dangerous
things first; the most
life threatening things first,
leaving the
obesity for later.
Howard was now recording
Dr. Nicholas Gonzalez,
who explains his experience
with an Earthing resource.
(Dr. Nicholas Gonzalez)
The best way to describe
about the way I felt is that,
I felt extremely toxic and
poisoned. I couldn't sleep
at all. I felt irritable.
I developed terrible itching.
(Howard) First of all,
I'm wondering what kind
of welling do you live in?
(Nicholas) I live in a
pre-World War II apartment,
so it's there are
no synthetics in it.
(Howard) Dr. Gonzalez,
thank you for joining us.
Howard, it's always great to
see you and it's always
great to talk with you and
have stimulating discussions.
It was the opening
night of the theatrical
release of
'The Grounded' documentary.
Howard had yet another
segment to record,
for his radio program,
with Step Sinatra's father,
Cardiologist,
Dr. Stephen Sinatra,
in the projection
room, in the theater.
(Dr. Stephen Sinatra) I've
interviewed hundreds of people
who are grounded. Not everyone
has a pleasant experience.
I mean, first of all, people
can have a detox reaction.
Where they're earthing and
they're getting that energy
through the body and you know,
this could activate parasites,
maybe the live spirochete;
activate microbes.
But remember, even though they
had an undesirable situation,
like leg cramps; for
example, remember this,
that when you do Earth,
when you do Ground,
you could be
detoxing the body.
So, then you bring the body
to a level, where it has
to get a little bit worse,
before it gets better.
Even my assistant back
home in Alaska, Rocky,
was able to read the reactions
from the film critics to
'The Grounded' documentary.
It wasn't pretty.
The New York Times
didn't pull punches.
While considering
the film critic feedback,
an acquaintance who advocates
earthing and grounding to a
broad audience,
tried to cheer me up,
with yet another published
scientific, double blind study.
Yet, all I wanted
to do was go home.
(Chain saw)
(Steve) Hold that.
Maybe take those things out of
your ear, so you can hear me.
Do you feel better, than you
did 24 months ago, Rocky?
Yes.
Can you tell me
what your last name is?
Seward.
Rocky Seward.
Now, do you feel better?
Are you richer than you
were, 24 months ago?
Nope.
What do you mean, 'nope.'
How much money do you got?
Zilch. Not a
dollar to my name.
Well, you're rich
in health now, right?
Yep.
You don't
look very happy.
Not financially,
I'm not.
Well, maybe I can change that.
I'm going to go on a trip.
OK. When are you coming back?
I'm not sure yet.
(Laughs)
(Steve) You don't believe me,
do you?
There are people in New York
that say they saw this movie
and they thought it
was a bunch of crap.
Didn't believe it.
What do you say to that?
From experience,
I know that it works.
What?
Experience,
I know that it works,
I had sleep apnea
and I don't have any more.
Well, what about other
people in this town?
There's quite a few
people here that were sick
and had back pain and such
and they're all healed now.
But would film critics
on the West Coast
see the documentary with
a different perspective?
(Howard) Welcome back folks,
this is Howard Straus;
'The Power of
Natural Healing,'
the guest is
Dr. Gaetan Chevalier.
Dr. Chevalier works at...
he is faculty at the California
Institute for Human Studies.
Now, California
Human Science. California
Institute for Human Science.
Human Science. Thank
you very much, Dr. Chevalier.
Now here's a
technology that is simple and
basically free for anyone,
and yet is one of the most
powerful techniques
for healing
that has ever been identified.
(Dr. Gaetan Chevalier) I started
doing research for Earthing,
with Clint Ober, in 2003, and
it happened at the California
Institute for Human
Science and at the time,
I was very skeptical.
You were not an advocate.
That's right. But connecting to
the Ground is, to my surprise,
amazing results, beyond
what I expected, actually.
The first study was an
electrophysiology study.
We measured brainwaves,
muscle tension, heart rate,
skin temperature and blood
pulse, all these things.
And we also measured
the flow of energy,
using a machine that has been
developed by the founder of
the CIHS; it's called an AMI.
(Howard) This could
have vast implications
in the treatment of clinical
depression, I would think.
(Gaetan) Yes. People with
depression, even people with
Alzheimer's and also
children with ADD.
We have another study that
is going on, right now,
on blood pressure;
how it changes.
We're measuring blood
pressure directly,
so we're going to confirm
this, I'm pretty sure.
(Howard) If this technology,
which is basically free can
relieve pain better than any
of the pharmaceuticals that
are sold over the counter and
that are this huge, multi,
multibillion dollar industry,
you can see that there would
be a fair amount of commercial
jealousy and/or
competition going on.
But I was not here to pat
Dr. Chevalier on the back.
I was here to play the Devil's
Advocate to represent the film
critics, who lambasted
it all as snake oil
and New Age nonsense.
And I don't know if this guy
is an expert in electricity.
It doesn't sound like it!
It doesn't.
I'd like to see his credentials.
This guy doesn't know
what he's talking about
and I can demonstrate
that to you.
(Howard) Now, remember,
Dr. Chevalier used to teach
electronics and electrical
engineering students about
electronics and
electromagnetism.
OK, so this person
is saying, here,
that alternating
electric field,
present in the environment,
they are radiated from wires,
even when there are no
currents flowing through them.
I can't even begin to imagine
how they can come up
with such a thing.
Here it is.
We have a wire that
is just plugged in.
Connected to nothing. Okay?
And we're gonna demonstrate...
(Beeping)
-that it emits EMF. Okay?
And this is not a particularly
sensitive device.
No. This is a device you
can find commercially.
They're very cheap. And there
you go. They do emit EMF.
So, I'm sorry, this person
from Skeptoid does not know
about electromagnetism.
From California,
I went to South Florida,
where Step Sinatra's father,
Dr. Stephen Sinatra was
spending a relaxing morning
with another doctor,
who advocates natural
healing, Dr. Joseph Mercola.
(Dr. Joseph Mercola) We know
that Vitamin D is just so
crucial. The fine point, that
I feel most people fail to
appreciate, though, it's not
simply swallowing a pill.
Because I kind of think that's
the allopathic approach,
the allopathic paradigm,
in that there's a pill for
everything. Well, our ancestors
never swallowed Vitamin D pills.
They got it by exposing a
significant portion of their
skin to sun, in the
non-winter months,
unless you lived in a
subtropical environment.
As I listened, I thought
about a man that has
carried the torch for
the Native communities,
that always knew
what nature could do,
in giving one their life back;
whether it was physical,
mental or spiritual.
(Dr. Stephen Sinatra) I met
Clint about ten years ago.
I was at a conference
in California.
And we were sort of in a
trailer, looking at what we call
(unintelligible)
basically,
endothelial cell dysfunction,
using a blood pressure cuff,
and I met this cowboy and
basically, he's talking
about Grounding.
And as a cardiologist,
I've got to tell you;
I resonated with it, because
the heart's an electrical organ.
What Dr. Sinatra
and Dr. Mercola find
as outstanding healing
modalities is exactly what
saved Dr. Sinatra's son,
Step from certain death.
And I was there
to be a witness.
I see lots of cracks now in
the brick wall that allopathic
medicine has built
to protect larger interests
and because of
suppressed information,
many people go to their
graves far too early.
Dr. Koniver and I had
lots to talk about concerning
this and I was already
late for that appointment.
When it comes
right down to it,
most of what it takes to
maintain your health is free,
in the form of Grounding.
All one needs is awareness.
(Dr. Laura Koniver)
We just have this!
(Steve) What do we
do in a place like this?
Because this is what we
live in; what do we do?
Well, I think that there's
a way for us to accept modern
technology in our society,
as it is and also,
still make the time to touch
Mother Earth and find ways to
connect with Her, even
with this all around us.
I mean, we're still
living on the Earth,
so there's still ways to touch
her, connect with her and
I don't think it has to be that
we live that way, constantly,
I think it could be that we
take the effort to do that
every day even if we're
not living directly off her.
Her home schooling
continued and now,
I too was one of her students.
(Laura) There's so much sacred
geometry in the human body.
Our human body is full
of sacred geometry.
So, in your ear, the way you
pick up sound is through a
sacred spiral that's
right next to your brain.
In the eye, first of all,
the shape of the eye is what?
(Son) A circle.
(Laura) A circle, yes.
So, here we have a
sensory organ, your eye,
that's designed to pick up on
what you're seeing and the
back is called the retina.
There are rod and
cone cells, there.
And wait till you see what
they look like, up close.
See these?
You see how some are pointy
and some are like sticks?
They're called that because
of this, a rod and a cone.
And if you were to look up
close, look at what it really
is. It's these discs. Stacked
on each other. Beautifully and
repetitively and with
a geometry to them.
(Daughter) Oh, my goodness!
That's crazy!
Yeah, that's the
back of your retina
and that's what
picks up on light.
Dr. Stephen Sinatra
has never stopped his
pioneering research
into Earthing.
Working closely with
colleague Clint Ober,
they continue to break down
barriers in conventional
medicine that separates
patients from real recovery
and freedom.
And so, today, I was on hand
to document a first time
experiment, which,
if it would work,
would make history in medical
circles but it if it failed,
would leave Dr.
Sinatra embarrassed
at best and
confused at worst.
It was the introduction of
Grounding to a diabetic
patient whose retina
would be photographed before
and after only two
hours of Grounding.
If even the slightest
change could be observed
after that time, it
would be groundbreaking news
and unequivocal,
as to what's possible,
if Mother Earth is given
a chance to be heard.
Dr. Sinatra placed
a grounding patch on the
bottom of both the
patient's feet and on both
palms of his hands.
The Earth would do the rest.
You're grounded!
(Steve) Doctor, how much
more time do we have
before we test this patient?
About 20 minutes or so.
OK. What are we going
to see, hopefully?
So, the purpose of this test
and the reason why we do it,
as retina specialists is
called a fluorescein angiogram.
Fluorescein is a
vegetable based dye and we
inject it into a patient's
vein through an IV.
And it circulates through the
heart and up to the head and
into the eye and we can
actually document the blood
flow in the eye, in the
retina, in particular.
So, the retina is the
photographic film of the eye,
it's no thicker than tissue
paper and it's attached to the
inner wall in the back of
the eye and coursing through
the retina are very
fine blood vessels.
And, so, say, for example,
a patient with high blood
pressure or diabetes or macular
degeneration, we monitor
the blood flow in the back
of the eye by doing this test.
(Dr. Stephen Sinatra) I've done
like 3,000 angiograms,
so I'm used to reading
angiograms of the heart but
when I see something like this,
you see this branch coming
off here and it's
really lit up over here?
And there's another branch here,
(Dr. Shalesh Kaushal)
Could that be a difference?
(Stephen) Yeah, I mean, isn't
that improved blood flow?
(Shalesh)
It could be, Steve, yeah.
And even off
this tributary, too.
(Stephen) Yeah.
You can't see it here
but there's a beautiful
tributary there.
(Shalesh) Yeah, you're right.
(Stephen)
Yeah. Isn't that increased
blood flow to the retina?
(Shalesh) I was looking at,
concentrating on the macula,
because that's the
gain in vision.
The macula actually looks
better profused, post Grounding.
I would tell you that's pretty
neat because usually when we
see a distortion of the full
field avascular zone like this
in diabetics, it gets
progressively larger.
You never see it shrink.
That's what caught
my attention right away.
(Stephen) And the
fact that these vessels are
lighting up more in other
words, can you assume,
if you do have better
profusion of the retina,
could there be, under
microscopic conditions,
a profusion of the macula?
That's what I'm getting at!
That's what I was saying; the
change in the avascular zone
or this shrinkage of it,
suggests that there's improved
profusion of the macula. That's
really what this is about.
- That's what we want.
- That's the gain.
Even if you have one percent
profusion, that's significant.
That is gigantic,
for the photoreceptor
cells that are affected by that.
And that's only two hours of
grounding! Less than two hours.
I mean, suppose we did
12 hours of grounding?
That would be interesting.
(Steve) So, doctor, what
does this mean for you?
Will you do this
with more patients?
Absolutely. This is a very
interesting initial observation
and it's quite exciting because
if we can show as in all good
science that
it's reproducible,
and we can improve the
profusion in this instance,
of a diabetic patient and
other patients that has huge
implications to the health
of their eye and actually,
the health of
their whole body.
For the first time,
there is even hope for this
patient to regain his sight.
Dr. Sinatra can also see
significant differences
between horses
that are grounded.
Then obvious
Golden Ratio in nature is an
emphasized home school lesson
for Dr. Koniver's children
because it ties in the
subjects of mathematics and
science and health and even
social studies all into one,
tight curl. It is the
symbol of life, intelligence,
unity, beauty and hope.
The more I thought
about it, our architecture,
our corporate logos,
our engineering feats,
even our adventures into
space was based upon this power
of interconnectedness.
Laura and her children
were now at the home
of Apollo 14 Astronaut
Dr. Edgar Mitchell.
Dr. Mitchell also sees the
power that grounding can
render and sees that power
from a unique perspective.
(Dr. Edgar Mitchell) I want to
point out the hand controller.
And this is the hand
controller I used on Apollo 14.
- Wow!
- To land on the Moon.
(Clara) How many interviews have
you had in your life?
(Edgar) I have no idea! But
into the thousands, I'm sure.
- I'm sure.
There are few days, when I
haven't been interviewed.
- Wow That's crazy.
Two years ago, Laura's daughter
Clara, gifted Dr. Mitchell
with grounding resources
to improve his own health.
So, in some ways, this was
an update and a reunion.
(Clara) What was the most
surprising thing you learned
from standing on the Moon?
Well, I don't know
that there were
any great surprises, because
we had practiced and trained;
everything was a
result of training.
Setting up the science
station, out in front,
with a lot of
equipment that we set up
that then broadcast data
back to Earth for 14 years.
And yes, we have been
visited by alien life forms and
the evidence is overwhelming
that the extraterrestrials
have been coming
here for perhaps centuries.
In our lifetime, the famous
Roswell Incident was the
beginning of the Modern Era
but the evidence is pretty
strong and I know all of the-
on a firstname basis have met-
all of the primary investigators
both in Europe, South America
and the United States that
are the experts in that area.
Why the Powers that Be
are covering it up or
trying to keep it hidden-
have tried to keep it hidden-
but I suspect that
it's power and control.
Did what Edgar speak of have
anything to do with Grounding?
A century ago, if one
suggested that Human would walk
on the Moon, it would've been
thought of as sheer lunacy.
Yet, after several failed
attempts, Edgar is only one
of 12 people to ever walk upon
the surface of an alien world.
I see this as a metaphor
for Earthing or Grounding
and what is suggests is
a new healthcare modality.
Edgar embraces grounding
wholeheartedly.
Why? Is it based on something
else that he knows?
(Son) Do you see math
equations in the universe?
(Edgar) Well, I don't
see them I mean, we know,
we've created a lot of math
equations to describe the
movement in the universe
and where things are,
with respect to each other.
(Alison Price) These are
petrochemicals, formaldehyde,
fragrance, toxic
preservatives,
just to name a few and there's
also many that won't appear on a
label, they're just byproducts
of the manufacturing process,
that are residues, that are
going to be in that product,
that will not appear on the
label because it's not an
official ingredient. In my
opinion, it's like, why take
the risk. I think innately,
we know that these chemicals
should not be present
in our bloodstream.
We're a living study. Right now,
we don't know the health
impacts about these toxic
chemicals and how they interplay
with one another and how our
bodies are dealing with them.
So, The sooner we understand
that life is interconnected and
cyclical and that our health
is intricately tied to this
planet, the better. We're
excited about everything that
going on and now without
further ado; Doctor Laura.
(Applause)
(Dr. Laura Koniver) All right,
thanks so much for coming,
I appreciate it so much.
So let me tell you a little
bit about how I transitioned
from living disconnected to
the Earth and not knowing I
was disconnected to really
embracing how it feels to
start Earthing and to making
a conscious choice to Earth.
I had my daughter. She's
the one who taught me about
earthing, really. Clara,
sitting there, in the front,
and she came into my life and
changed me in a million ways
but one of the ways
is that she had colic.
And that's a lifechanger,
because she cried constantly.
The only time she's not crying
is when she was nursing,
basically and pacing
around and eventually,
I start pacing outside.
I lived in Arizona at the time,
so I never wore shoes,
because it's warm, year round.
So, I'm pacing outside in
the front yard with my little
baby girl and every time
I'd do this, she stops crying.
Every time. So, finally, dawning
on me, through sleep deprivation
that this is the only way to get
her to stop crying, so every day
we'd go outside and I'd walk,
sing to her and I'd walk,
and she'd almost always goes
to sleep or something and I'm
thinking... what? And
the I'd realize, sometimes,
I'd have my shoes on
and it wouldn't work. Right?
Or, I'd go outside and my
daughter would be crying in a
fit and I'd have my shoes and
like, why is this not working?
it's not that, it's- I'm
barefoot and she's on my skin,
on my chest and her skin's
touching my skin and
I'm grounded to the earth
and that's the difference.
So, I didn't have a label for
it but I knew, hey, whatever
this is, this is really helping,
instantaneously with pain.
I'm stepping outside and I'm
holding her and nobody's
telling her 'You should
be feeling better now.'
Her autonomic nervous system
is having an instant
response to the fact that
it's not inflamed anymore.
Her body is neutralized and
inflammation is decreasing
and I can see that relief
and I can feel it in her.
So, that's how I started
getting the concept of Earthing.
All we have
to do is touch it.
And we're Grounded.
We are providing the
earthing resources to
various cancer patients across
the United States to help
them with, hopefully, whatever
it is that ails them the most.
And the feedback that we've
gotten has been pretty amazing.
A lot of pain relief.
We have patients who say that
it's relieving their headaches.
I've been seeing patients
for 17 years, specializing in
autoimmune diseases. Started
using Earthing, Grounding.
(Steve) OK, so approximately
what percentage of your patients
have a positive result
with Grounding resources
or being Grounded?
Easily, 85% to 90%.
Step Sinatra and his
father are dedicated to
updating healthcare.
They believe it will improve
the economy and open doors
that up till now have
been closed and locked.
I was born near
Hinckley, Minnesota and here
is where both my parents have
not only experienced the
effects of grounding
but have shared it with
everyone that will listen.
(Elsie) Oh, I'm looking
at my pictures. Okey Doke.
Here, we've got the
hunting picture.
(Steve) Elsie,
how old are you?
I just turned
98 the 17th of February.
Have you lived close
to nature your whole life?
ALL my life.
What did you do, in your life?
I mean you picked berries? What?
I did everything that
an ordinary citizen does,
in their lifetime.
When my parents introduced
Earthing to the neighbor girl,
that survived being pinned
by a tractor tire on her face,
the results she had closed
the door on anyone else's
doubts within her family
about what grounding can do.
First it was her mother.
And then it was her sister.
I hadn't been in
Minnesota for two years.
And there were a
few people missing.
I knew where to find them.
Did they die
before their time?
Probably so.
It made me think deeply
about what matters.
Seeing my family name
made me realize that I want
to make every moment count,
before it's gone forever.
(Dr. Stephen Sinatra) We
live in a toxic age.
I mean there's
toxicity all around us.
There's seen forces, there's
unseen forces and the unseen
forces are worse
than the seen.
So, what we're doing,
right now,
we're taking in the
energy of the Earth.
We're balancing,
we're connecting.
That's it! We're
connecting with the Earth.
That's what we need
that's what everybody needs.
(Step Sinatra)
That's what I really want.
(Vanessa de la Vina) So, tell
me a little bit about what
you guys are working on.
Well, we're going to go
into a retirement home,
and we're going to be giving
these Grounding sheets.
Which, I don' know if
anybody's heard about but...
(Dr. Laura Koniver)
These blankets have these
stripes in it, and it's
connected to this wire,
and see this little plug?
You can put it in the outlet;
this will help connect,
through the outlet, through
the grounding system in the
house, when you're outside and
just feel connecting to nature
and it's actually
healing for your body.
Sometimes, I can't go outside,
I'm working or I'm on the
computer. Or I'm inside.
So, I can so this.
This will plug in and
connect me to the earth
outside and be
supportive of my health.
And people use these
and they sleep with them.
And if you, for hours, sleep
with it or have it on your lap
when you're watching
TV or reading,
then studies have shown, in
your blood and in your joints,
and all through your body that
pain is decreased and you
sleep better and
that kind of thing.
It's nothing to do with the
electricity,
you're putting it in the
grounding port, right there.
I really like the
individual anecdotal
evidence because that
shows me what's possible.
Because if something
happens to even one person,
then I know that
it's possible for me.
Even if it doesn't
happen to anybody else,
I have unlimited possibility
but if something happens and
it's true for that human
being, and there's that story
and that truth, then I know
that's possible for anybody.
(Step Sinatra) So the epiphany
was this; in a split second
after that, I said, well,
wow if I created that,
then I can create
my wildest dreams.
(Howard Straus) You know, and
this is something that I keep
telling people
over and over again.
Disease, cancer, whatever
kind of disease it is, is a
construct of how you live your
life and what you think about.
Yes.
And, like in the old Edward
G. Robinson gangster movies,
when he says, 'I made
you and I can break you!'
That's exactly
what you're telling us.
You're telling us,
I made this circumstance,
I made this bad situation,
I can unmake it and make it the
most wild, fantastic
future that there is.
It was Howard's mother,
Charlotte Gerson,
whose father, Dr. Max Gerson,
went down in history as a
visionary in medicine.
He was curing cancer
almost 100 years ago, now.
At that time, no one
listened to him, either.
The Grounding is not very
different from the Gerson
Therapy. Grounding is
relatively free of charge.
The Gerson Therapy is
relatively inexpensive because
we're using natural materials
and they can't patent them,
so they are against it,
because they can't make
a lot of money on it.
Howard Straus is an
MIT Graduate in Physics and
wanted to show me a math
equation that manifests itself
in a design. Perhaps visual
proof of math's expression
in nature.
The door was open.
And as I stepped in, a flood
of memories came back to me.
The past two years
have gone by quickly
and it was a wakeup call,
as to what I had witnessed.
(Steve) Get naked
and I felt better.
Anecdotal evidence
doesn't prove anything.
I really like the individual
anecdotal evidence because
then I know that that's
possible for anybody.
(Dr. Stephen Sinatra) Greatest
discovery of all time was what
we're doing now,
which is Earthing!
(Step Sinatra) There is
intelligence that is beyond us.
Anything is possible.
(Dave Olerud)
That's a miracle.
(Son) Do you see math
equations in the universe?
(Dr. Edgar Mitchell) We created
a lot of math equations to
describe the movement in the
universe and where things are,
with respect to each other.
If there is a message,
at all about Earthing,
it really is about our
connection with nature,
with the
planet, with the universe.
(Joseph M. Ritter) Horseshit.
I haven't read these studies
that you're talking about.
What is the result of
these scientific studies?
(Dr. Shalesh Kaushal) As in all
good science reproducible,
in this instance, in the
case of a diabetic patient.
(Dr. David Suzuki)
Nature is everywhere.
(Skeptoid) What I know, for
one thing is that there's a
huge number of madeup, New
Age claims...I can't say I've
heard anyone say they've
had a health benefit.
(Dr. Gaetan Chevalier)
Skeptoid does not know.
The Schumann Cavity
Resonance, 7.83 Hertz.
That is the
heartbeat of the Earth,
made visible for the
first time in history.
We need to be connected with
the Earth, which gave us birth.
If we don't have air for more
than three or four minutes,
we're dead! If you don't
have clean water, you're sick.
And the same with the Earth,
it gives us our food,
the Sun that gives us the
energy in our bodies.
And the other creatures
around the planet,
that make the planet
habitable for us.
If we don't see that
that is the bottom line,
for our wellbeing and
happiness, then we're toast!
What Howard saw, in
that mathematical sequence
discovered by
Benoit Mandelbrot,
is something considered to
be one of the greatest
mathematical
revelations of all time.
Computers did not create
this neverending design;
they revealed it.
Does it carry a message?
They say that in all
the snowflakes that have
ever fallen, that no
two are exactly alike.
We are snowflakes.
There are billions of us
but we are all unique.
Made with infinite perfection.
And if we embrace each other,
coming together with a shared,
sustainable purpose,
born in love,
the power of that
can move mountains.
Nothing can stop it.
Anything.
Anything is possible.
I think now,
more than ever,
I'm ready for spring.